And the basic idea, Kevin, is that
ChatGpt is the new front door to the
internet. It no longer starts at
Facebook. It no longer starts at Google.
You just go directly to ChatGpt and
whatever you want to get done, you can
do right from that box. And so, like, I
think there's a way to make the math
work even if they don't reach like the
the machine god super intelligence. Um,
but it's a lot easier to sell the vision
if the pot of gold that you are saying
is at the end of this rainbow is in fact
like trillions of dollars and an
entirely new sort of society. Tell us
about what turned you into such a little
piggy.
I will say that this really was the
first AI experience where I was like,
"Oh, I love this. I'm having fun.
[Music]
Kevin, how are you? I'm great. How are
you? I'm great. You had safe travels to
New York.
Sure did.
Well, as you know, I I wanted to make
sure that we were apart for Hard Fork's
third birthday.
Yes. Happy birthday. We're three.
Happy birthday. 3 years old. And it
feels like just yesterday we said, "Hey,
why don't we have a podcast?"
Exactly. No, our producers got us these
lovely balloons. Uh, thank you to them.
And I have now two three-year-olds in my
life, a human one and a podcast. And if
I've learned anything from raising a a
three-year-old child is that this is the
year that Hard Fork will become potty
trained.
And if you had to just pick one of those
three-year-olds to keep, which one would
you pick?
Don't make me answer that.
Okay. Okay. Fair enough. You know, I was
very excited to come to New York this
week cuz, you know, we've just gone
through uh, you know, a very intense
period of like AI events and
conferences. My favorite moment from Dev
Day uh was when a guy came up to us. We
were eating uh snacks there at a table
and this guy comes up and he's like,
"Are you Casey from Hard Fork?"
Uh, and starts just talking about how
big a fan he is. And like you at one
point are like, "Uh, yeah, he's also on
Hard Fork." And the guy starts laughing
like he doesn't believe you. He's just
like, "Oh, that's that's a good one,
jokester."
And then proceeds to take the selfie
with you.
Oh, I've never been happier.
Yeah, that was that was a great moment
in hard fork history where I tried to I
pointed out the other host of the show
and he was just like, "What are you
talking about?
You're you're out of your mind." What a
good Yeah, another classic
Hardfork bit. Me pretending there's
another host on the show.
I'm Kevin Roose, a tech columnist at the
New York Times. I'm Casey Non from
Platformer and this is Hardfork. This
week, we visit OpenAI developer day and
chatbt is eating the web. Then, OpenAI
makes a huge deal with AMD. We'll tell
you about the trillion dollar battle
over AI chips. And finally, slop queen
Katie Ntopolis is here to talk about
Sora and all the terrible videos she's
making of me and Kevin. And she will pay
for her crimes. Well, Casey, it was
another one of those weeks where Open AI
kind of swallowed the entire news cycle.
So, you and I took a field trip on
Monday of this week to uh Fort Mason in
San Francisco where OpenAI was having
its third annual Dev Day, its big
developer conference. and we both got
the chance to go.
Yeah, this was the third dev day and the
second one we were invited to after they
didn't invite us reporter types last
year, but this this time they had a lot
to say.
Yeah. So, let's talk about what we saw
there and all of the many things that
Open AAI has been working on. But first,
since this is a segment about Open AI
and AI in general, we should make our
disclosures. Mine is that the New York
Times company is suing OpenAI and
Microsoft over alleged copyright
violations.
And my boyfriend works at Anthropic.
Okay, so Monday morning we show up at
Fort Mason. Uh this was uh a big event.
Something like 1500 people I heard were
there. And Casey, how would you describe
the vibe of OpenAI's Dev Day? Well, I
have to say first of all, Kevin, that it
was giving me flashbacks because it was
nine years ago that I was in the same
building when Facebook announced that it
would let developers build bots into
Facebook Messenger. And Mark Zuckerberg
stood on stage and said, "No one will
ever have to call 1800 Flowers ever
again." Uh, which turned out to be not
true. That's right.
The same exact building. I forgot that
it was at Fort Mason, too. My god,
it was. And then 9 years later, the uh
the faces are different. The company is
different, but the promise feels sort of
the same.
Yes. So, Fort Mason is this big like
sort of indooroutdoor like multiplex.
And you know, one building they've got
sort of talks going on, another building
they've got demos. Um, I walked around
the the demo building, uh, they had a a
Sora cinema where you could like go into
like a dark theater with like a movie
screen and sit on like very comfortable
lounge chairs and like watch like 30
different 6-second clips of like AI
generated Sora videos. So, that made me
feel something. Oh, they had a phone
booth station. Did you do these? I saw
it, but I didn't go in.
Well, lucky you then, cuz when you were
in there, uh, you got connected to chat
GPT and you could just sort of like talk
to it or you could play like a trivia
game. Um, I got one of the trivia
questions wrong. Very embarrassing. Um,
they also had
What was the question?
Uh, well, maybe I'll try this one on
you. Okay.
Um, what is the branch of AI that
teaches computers to learn from their
own experiences?
ers to learn from their own experiences.
Uh,
are you typing this into chatbt?
I'm going to say machine learning.
Okay,
congratulations. You win. I said
reinforcement learning, which was a
little too uh too too in the weeds.
That was great. If you're just listening
to the podcast, I just I just said what
I call a full clue, which is somebody
asks you a question and then you just
sort of surreptitiously type it into the
computer while no one's looking. So
anyways,
yes, so OpenAI, let's just tick through
some of the stuff they uh announced or
or said from the stage. Uh the first
thing that Sam Alman said during his
keynote was that chat GPT has been
growing like crazy. It has more than 800
million weekly users now. Uh he also
announced that the number of tokens that
OpenAI is um processing through its API
have gone up to 6 billion tokens per
minute uh on the API. That's up from 300
million tokens per minute in 2023. So
big growth for them.
And I just want to say that it seems
like every time there's a hot new
startup, they have to invent a very
impressive sounding metric. And the
human mind has absolutely no idea of
understanding what it means. It's like,
oh, there's a big number and now it's an
even bigger number. Uh what what what
should I take away from that? I don't
know.
Yeah. So, in addition to those new
growth numbers, Sam also announced that
Sora 2, the new video generation model
and GPT5 Pro are coming to the API along
with a new smaller voice model. So,
developers are going to be able to build
using those things. Um, they showed off
some examples. One of them was that
Mattel has apparently started using Sora
2 to sort of prototype or mock up new
designs for toys. Um, they showed off a
video of that. Um, they also announced a
bunch of new stuff for what they're
calling agent kit, which is basically
the way that developers can uh build AI
agents using this sort of drag and drop
interface. Uh, they showed off some
examples of that. But then the big thing
that I think we're going to spend most
of our time talking about was this
announcement that apps are coming to
chat GPT. So Casey, explain what Sam
Alman and other OpenAI executives said
about that. Yeah, and this really is
where this story connects to that
Facebook event that we went to almost a
decade ago. Uh, OpenAI is not the only
company that's tried this. There have
been others in addition to Facebook. But
what OpenAI wants you to do is when you
are using chat GPT to increasingly bring
in the other things that you might do
around the web. And so to start with,
you'll be able to tag into your
conversations. Expedia, Zillow, Figma,
Target, Spotify. Uh I did a little test
the day that it came out where I built a
playlist in my own Spotify through Chat
GPT. And the basic idea, Kevin, is that
ChatGpt is the new front door to the
internet. It no longer starts at
Facebook. It no longer starts at Google.
you just go directly to chat GBT and
whatever you want to get done you can do
right from that box.
Yeah. So this is something that um I
think is sort of a natural consequence
of chat GBT kind of becoming more
generally useful for people. Um also
developers are very eager to get in
front of those 800 million weekly chat
GPT users. And so they have essentially
created this link between other apps and
websites and chat GBT. And we should
maybe explain a little bit about how
that works because it's not like ChatgPT
is going off and searching Zillow or
Expedia or Target.com on your behalf. It
kind of when you tag in one of these
apps, it sort of opens this like window
within ChatGpt. So you're still on
ChatGpt, but you kind of have this
little um sub window where you can do
things. So what's an example of
something that that you can do other
than creating Spotify playlists?
Sure. So, one example that they showed
off is, "Hey, I'm getting ready to move
to Pittsburgh. I need to buy a house."
And so, Zillow just showed a bunch of
its own listings within ChatGBT for you
to to browse inside uh that experience,
right? So, it's not just search for a
home in Pittsburgh uh that's for sale
for me. It's like I want one that's like
four bedrooms and three bathrooms and
under this price and it's got a yard.
Um, you could also have it sort of go
through your history of chat GBT
conversations and say like, you know,
based on um where I work and the kinds
of things I like to do, like find some
houses in a neighborhood that you think
would be good for me and it could
presumably go do that.
Yeah. And this is the real promise of
what OpenAI is doing here is that they
will find a way to safely share some
amount of the things that Catch PT knows
about you with the other apps and
services on the web in a way that lets
you have these very personalized
experiences in a way that lets ChatP get
things done for you on your behalf. and
they think if they can do that then they
really do become the new homepage for
the web
right so that's sort of why they're
doing it I assume this is also going to
be a way for them to monetize chat GPT
um if you are going on to target and
buying things through chat GPT
presumably open AI will get a cut of
that but Casey you wrote a newsletter
this week about how you think this is
similar to a play that Facebook tried to
make uh many years ago around this
platform strategy and you noted that
that did not go entirely well for
Facebook. So maybe just outline your
argument here.
Yeah. So if you remember back in the
early 2010s, Facebook was growing really
rapidly. It had become the homepage for
a lot of people. It was where a lot of
people were sort of starting their day
on the internet. And at some point,
Facebook gets the idea, hey, why don't
we let the other developers build
experiences on our platform? We'll share
some of the things that we know about
our users. um you know such as the the
pages that they've liked and maybe some
of their contact information. In fact,
we'll even share all of their friends
with you and their friends contact
information. And this just becomes a
bonanza for developers, right? There's
so much personal information that is now
available to them. They get in there,
they start building things and Facebook
figures out it can make a lot of money
doing this. It start selling this
virtual currency called Facebook
credits. And if you wanted to have a big
app on Facebook like Farmville, remember
Kevin? Well, Kevin lost so much money on
Farmville back in the day.
I had to file for bankruptcy in in
Facebook credits because I spent too
much on Farmville.
That's right. But Facebook took a 30%
cut of all of the uh Facebook credit
revenue. And at one point, Kevin,
Facebook disclosed that Zinga,
Farmville's developer, was alone 12% of
its revenue as a company. So, there was
a moment where this worked really well.
And then what happened?
Well, you may remember another company
called Cambridge Analytica.
Yes, I've heard of this one.
So, Cambridge Analytica was a company
that became famous after the 2016 US
presidential election because they were
one of the companies that was hoovering
up all of that personal data and it
eventually created a huge scandal
because it was revealed that they had
been using all of this data in an effort
to swing the election toward Donald
Trump. Now, I think the idea that they
actually could have swung the election
using Facebook data is dramatically
overstated, but it did draw a lot of
attention to the extremely loose rules
that Facebook had around user privacy.
And Facebook wound up having to take a
bunch of steps to try to rein that sort
of thing in. And in fact, weird little
asterisk detail about Cambridge
Analytica, by the time it became a
scandal, Facebook had actually already
locked down the platform a couple years
earlier because it suspected that
something like this might someday
happen.
Yeah. And I I really am glad that you
wrote about this and drew that
connection because I think in this case
chat GPT as a platform is actually
riskier than Facebook as a platform for
the simple reason that people share very
intimate things with chat GPT. If you
can get someone's Facebook data, you can
know who their friends are, what kinds
of uh posts they make, uh maybe you know
some things about their potential
shopping behavior. But with chat GPT,
like if you're giving that data to an
outside developer, that might include uh
transcripts of therapy sessions that
you've had with Chat GPT, things that
you've asked for advice on. It might
include like very intimate personal
details and now all of a sudden uh
Zillow or Expedia or Target has that and
you have really no way of knowing what
they're going to do with that. So in
JBC's case, this is like potentially
quite serious if there were to ever be
some kind of a data breach. Yeah. I
mean, let me give you an example, Kevin.
Let's say that I'm using Chat GPT and I
decide I want to send you a birthday
card for a hard fork's third birthday,
right? And it draws on all of the
conversations that I've had with Chat
GPT over the years. And it writes a
birthday card and it says, "Hey, Kevin,
look, I know things aren't great between
us. I know that we have a lot of fights.
Uh, but I also want you to know that
Casey has been working on this in
therapy." And here's actually what his
therapist told him this week. Um, happy
birthday and best of luck. And then
imagine it just sends you that birthday
card. I would have so much egg on my
face and I'd be digging out of that one
for years. So that's the kind of risk
we're talking about.
Yes. Huge risks. Risks that could blow
up a podcast.
Absolutely. So did they address not this
specific issue but the larger uh issue
of data sharing at this event?
They did. So Nick Turley, head of chat
PT, who's been on the show before, said,
"We are going to make it so that
Chatyppt shares the minimum necessary
amount of information needed to make the
transaction." Um, so I can imagine that
in the case where I'm creating a Spotify
playlist, it's probably just sending
whatever I put in the box, you know,
make me a fun playlist for the hard fork
third birthday party. Um, now that
sounds good when I say it, but I should
note it sort of handwaves its way past
the details, right? Because chatbt also
has a memory feature that I imagine will
eventually be exposed in some way to
some of these developers. And basically
what OpenAI has said is, yeah, we're
going to be really careful and we're not
going to do anything bad. And um, I
believe that that is their intention,
but we're going to have to keep an eye
on them.
Yeah, I mean, I don't think this is a
hypothetical. I went to try to connect
my chat GPT to Canva, one of these
developers who have uh sort of created
these chat GPT apps. And you get a
little popup before you connect your app
that says uh among other things that uh
attackers may attempt to use chat GPT to
access your data in the app. Uh and it
also requires you to sort of confirm
that you understand that data from your
chat GPT account, including from
conversations and memories, may be
shared with these developers. So you get
you really are placing a lot of trust in
OpenAI and the developers that it has
handpicked to be able to build these
apps uh by giving them sort of access to
your chat GPT history. Yeah. And for
that reason if you're like I think this
feature is not for me right now I think
that is a completely rational choice to
take. Like there is no reason that you
have to sort of leap headong into this
before you you know you've let u you
know more privacy adventurous people uh
put it through its paces.
Yeah. use Zillow the oldfashioned way.
So I'm interested in the privacy
implications here, but I'm also
interested in the business implications
because one thing I am uh interested to
see and keep an eye on is whether the
chat GPT apps become sort of privileged
within chat GPT. Um, I can imagine, for
example, that if you are looking up, you
know, real estate uh information on
ChatGpt, it might want to show you
things from Zillow rather than Redfin or
another site because Zillow is the one
that kind of has the deal with ChatGpt
and with OpenAI. So, are you thinking
about that?
Yes, absolutely. So, this this was the
question that I asked of the OpenAI
executives during the Q&A session that
you and I both attended. Um, I guess you
just kind of tuned out during my
question, but basically, you know, what
what Sam Alman told me was, hey, look,
it's important that people trust J Chat
BT. He said, quote, if we break that or
take payment for something we shouldn't
have instead of showing you what we
think is best, that would clearly
destroy that relationship very fast. So,
we're hyper aware of the need to be
careful. Uh, Greg Brockman, who is Open
AI's president, added, I do want to say
that I think there's also a lot of
nuance there because sometimes we don't
know what the best product is, right? We
have a principle of really trying to
serve the user and then what does that
mean in all these specific context? So,
what I took that to mean was you sort of
have the angel on the shoulder of
OpenAI. Uh, I'm not saying that's Sam
Alman, but you know, there's like kind
of a metaphorical angel sitting on the
company's shoulder saying, "Hey, be
really, really careful. Do the right
thing." As Google used to say back in
the day about this exact dynamic, don't
be evil. And then you have the devil on
the shoulder saying, I do want to say
that I also think there's a lot of
nuance in this space.
Right.
Right. Us take money.
Why would we do that?
It's nuanced, Kevin. It's a very nuanced
question.
Very nuanced. very nuanced.
So, okay, that's sort of the scene of
dev day. But Casey, do you feel like you
learned anything about Open AI or its
ambitions at this event?
I think this was just another example of
OpenAI showing us how ambitious that
that it is. You know, Silicon Valley is
not a town lacking in ambition, but when
I saw everything that OpenAI is trying
to do here, it was just another moment
to say, "Wow, these people are really
going for it." like they really do
actually want to take over the entire
web and they're telling you that to your
face and they're showing you how they
are doing it. So for me that was kind of
a wakeup call. How about you?
Yeah, I think that's right. I mean it's
very clear that OpenAI sees chat GPT as
more than a chatbot. It sees it as kind
of a new operating system for everything
that you might want to do. I also uh saw
some people comparing it to a super app
like WeChat in China where you can sort
of have one app that controls uh a lot
of your online activities. So I don't
know whether this platform strategy will
work. I think we've pointed out today
some reasons that it might not. But I
think the signal that it sends to
investors and developers and users and
kind of the rest of the internet is like
we are coming for you. We are we are not
resting on our laurels. We are not
resting on the ways that people are
currently using chat GPT. We want to
take the rest of the internet and sort
of shove it inside what we're doing.
Yeah.
All right. So, one more thing we need to
talk about from dev day because this was
truly the most bizarre part of the
entire event was this fireside chat
between Sam Alman and Johnny IV. Johnny
IV, of course, is the uh famous uh
former Apple designer who made the
iPhone and the iPod and basically
everything that uh you know, Apple uh
you know, built its success on over the
years, who has now partnered with OpenAI
and been acquired by OpenAI um and is
building a new hardware product with
OpenAI. And so I was excited for this
because I thought, "Oh, maybe we're
going to get some details about this
hardware product in this like, you know,
30 40m minute uh fireside chat." And
Casey, what we heard instead was a bunch
of words signifying nothing. It was GPT2
level
is how I would describe it.
Yes.
Like sentences were started and not
finished. And by the end of this
session, we truly had not learned one
thing about what OpenAI is building or
how they were building it. It was
incredible. Um, I will just read you a
quote from Johnny Iive during the
session.
This was what they were he was talking
about what they're building. He said,
"The clues and the pointers all exist
and it's just trying to sort of put them
together, but there has, you know, it
will be it will be ideas. It will be a
vision for what makes sense. And I think
we're only going to arrive at that if we
are very curious and light on our feet.
Do you remember the the Miss America
pageant where they asked her some
complicated question about geopolitics
and she just kind of had to vamp for for
for 30 seconds until the end of the
question? That was how I felt watching
Johnny IV get asked questions by Sam
Alman, which of course is so funny
because it's not like Sam Alman is Cara
Swisser up there like really putting the
screws to this guy. You know, presumably
all of these questions had been like
negotiated in advance. And like look, I
get it if you don't want to tell us
exactly what the device is and when it's
going to go on sale. Like it's okay to
like tease us a little bit, but I truly
don't understand the point of having
everyone just sit there for 30 minutes
waiting you for you to say something and
then all you get is him being like craft
is the essence of tools. You and you're
just like what what are we doing here?
So I have a message to the open AI
community on the subject of your heart.
I've said this one time before on the
show. I try to reserve this for very
special situations. I think we're in it
now. When it comes to AI hardware and
open AAI, I'm saying this, ship it or
zip it. I truly do not want to hear one
more of these fireside chats where we
ruminate on the nature of design. I want
to see freaking specs, people. Get me
the specs or stop talking.
Yes. This was the closest thing I've
ever seen to human generated slop. It
was just a bunch of tokens.
It was It was too many tokens. It was
too many tokens. When we come back,
OpenAI's other big news this week, a
trillion dollar gamble on GPUs.
Well, Kevin, while you and I were at
OpenAI developer day learning about
everything that's coming to Chat GPT,
OpenAI was arguably making much bigger
news outside the conference. Yes, they
were moving markets, the entire stock
market. Not the entire stock market, but
a couple companies. And this was one
where I was focused on the things in
front of me. And when I got out of
developer day, I thought, I really need
to get up to speed on everything that is
going on with chips. And whenever I had
that feeling, I think one, oh no, I have
to talk about chips again. But two, can
Kevin Roose, our resident in-house chips
expert, smarten me up? I would say I
would thank you. That's very kind. But I
would say I am an aspiring chips expert.
Um, I do not know everything there is to
know about the semiconductor industry or
GPUs, but I aspire to learn much more.
And actually, I took a big step in that
direction over last weekend at the
curve, this other AI conference we both
attended when I happened to find myself
like in the middle of kind of a scrum of
like chips guys who were talking about
chips and I understood like 40% of what
they were saying. They were talking
about, you know, HBM and EUVs and gas
turbines and geothermal. And I was just
like transfixed because all the AI guys
have had to become chips guys. And I am
saying right here on this podcast that I
will by the end of 2025 be a chips guy.
That's great to hear and I think we can
make some big strides in that direction
this week because OpenAI made some big
deals. I need to understand what's
happening and so we're going to pilot a
new segment that we're calling what the
hell is going on with all these chips
exactly?
It's a little unwieldy. We might want to
tighten that one.
So, let's get started with this deal
with AMD. Tell me exactly what OpenAI is
up to here.
So, we talked a couple weeks ago about
OpenAI's big deal with Nvidia, who is
the leading chip manufacturer. Uh, they
make the best and most um expensive and
and highest quality chips for training
AI systems. But the number two player in
that market, the GPU market, is AMD,
who's Nvidia's uh, you know, competitor
and and sort of seen as a kind of
distant second place in the GPU arms
race.
This is like the Pepsi of chips.
It's the Pepsi of chips. Exactly. So
this week, OpenAI and AMD announced a
major multi-billion dollar deal where
OpenAI is going to buy a bunch of GPUs
from AMD and put them in their data
centers over the next few years. And in
return, they are going to uh get some
AMD stock. Uh this could eventually
become uh up to 10% of the company uh at
a penny per share. basically free stock
or stock at a very very low price
compared to what it trades for today.
And this will all play out over the
course of a number of years. They will
start with AMD's uh newest chip in 2026.
And they are going to uh try to buy a
total of 6 gawatt worth of AMD chips,
which is a little more than half of what
they are going to get from Nvidia. in
the terms of that deal. Nvidia's deal
was for 10 gigawatts worth of GPUs. So
the big picture here is that OpenAI is
doing these deals with many many chip
providers and infrastructure providers.
And if you kind of add it all up, just
the announcements from uh AMD and Nvidia
and a handful of other companies that
they've struck deals with, they are
building a trillion dollar GPU empire uh
over the next few years. That is their
stated ambition. and plan and now they
have the deals in place to do that. And
I don't know if you remember a few
months ago when there was this reporting
about how Sam Alman was trying to raise
7 trillion for a chip company and
everyone kind of said haha that's like
such a crazy number that would be like
some you know huge multiple of you know
the the the total uh lifetime earnings
of open AI. Well, it's not 7 trillion,
but now they have pledged to spend
roughly a trillion dollars uh over the
next few years.
Well, you know, when I got into
business, they told me the first
trillion is always the hardest.
They do say that.
Yeah. You know, I would I something
about me, Kevin, is that I didn't until
very recently understand what a gigawatt
was in any practical terms. My
understanding based on the reading that
I've done is a gigawatt of energy is
about what is produced by a nuclear
reactor. and OpenAI is now committing to
infrastructure that will require the
equivalent energy of 20 nuclear
reactors. Yes, it is um a huge amount of
energy and that's a whole separate
discussion. Like it's one thing to buy
the GPUs, it's another thing to be able
to turn them on. And so, uh, we'll talk
more about that, I'm sure, in a later
episode, but there is sort of a
simultaneous race going on to lock up
the energy that is going to be required
to power all of these millions of GPUs.
Okay, so maybe this is an obvious
question, but tell me just in basic
terms, what does what do OpenAI and AMD
each get out of this deal that they just
made?
Essentially, the deal structure goes
like this. Open AAI is going to buy a
bunch of chips from AMD. It's going to
use those chips to train and power its
models. And in exchange for those
purchases, AMD is going to give OpenAI
the rights to buy very cheap stock in
AMD. So when they reach a gigawatt of
compute uh that they that they've
purchased from AMD, they will get some
uh allocation of stock in AMD, which
could be worth, you know, many billions
of dollars. What OpenAI is doing is
signaling to AMD, hey, if you guys go
build a bunch of really good GPUs, we
will buy them from you. And um the way
that they are sort of getting this
financing is in the form of a stock
essentially rebate on that purchase. So
let me see if I have this straight
because when I look at this, I see
OpenAI gets access to a bunch of
infrastructure plus a financial stake
and the chipmaker. AMD gets a huge new
customer and ensures a lot of future
demand. That just kind of looks like a
win-win to me for them. Is there
anything I'm missing there? So, the
other thing that's really important here
is that um OpenAI and AMD are going to
have a collaborative partnership in
designing not just these chips but the
software that uh runs on these chips. So
one of the big uh sort of hurdles that
AMD has had in competing with Nvidia is
that Nvidia's software which is called
CUDA um is seen as much much better for
training AI models than AMD software
which is called rockom. So basically
open AAI as a result of this partnership
will have an incentive to make AMD
software just as good as Nvidia
software. And so this could actually
help AMD in that way too where you know
they're making these chips, they're
selling them to OpenAI, but also OpenAI
is helping to write the software um that
runs on these chips thereby making these
AMD chips more compelling to other AI
developers who want to build models
using them. Does that make sense?
Okay. Yes. So, this gets to the second
big question that I have for you today,
which is how is this deal connected to
the other chips and infrastructure deals
that OpenAI has made recently? When we
talked about the Nvidia deal on the
show, I said that I had heard some
speculation that one reason that Nvidia
wanted to make the deal that it did was
to discourage OpenAI from going out and
making a bunch of other deals with other
chip companies. In hindsight, that seems
like a very silly thing that I said
because OpenAI is clearly going to make
a deal with whoever it can. So tell me
as best as you can how all these deals
interrelate or is it as simple as OpenAI
needs more infrastructure than any one
company can provide and so it's just
going to go out and lock up as much of
it as it can.
Yeah, I think that's more the
explanation. I don't actually think this
is about crowding uh anyone else out of
the market. um any AI maker or
chipmaker. I think this is just them
saying like we are going to need a lot
of GPUs more than uh any one company can
make and probably more than any of these
companies are planning to make
currently. So they're also trying to
sort of encourage these companies to up
their production to meet this incredible
demand. And you know it is always good
to have more than one supplier. you can
kind of play them off each other and and
maybe you know you know increase the
competition between them. Um and so I
think OpenAI is just kind of spreading
its bets a little bit here but they do
believe that they are going to need all
these chips and many more. Essentially
what they have been saying is we are
compute constrained right now. We have a
lot of products that we're building
things that we want to do that we can't
do because we don't have enough compute
for it. And so they are trying to sort
of lock in as much compute as they can.
um and then you know build out their
data centers and find the energy to
power all of this and then you know use
their big clusters to train models that
hopefully will take us all the way to
AGI. That's the idea anyway.
Yeah. At open AI developer day this
week, Greg Brockman, the company's
president said, "You don't even know the
products that we haven't released
because we do not have the compute to
power them." Uh so apparently there's a
bunch of services OpenAI is sitting on
and maybe some of these deals will uh
get them closer to uh releasing them for
better and for worse. So let me now ask
a question that is considered extremely
impolite in Silicon Valley and it's the
sort of thing that might uh get you
asked to leave a party. How is OpenAI
going to pay for all of this?
It's a great question because they do
not have $1 trillion, I'll tell you
that. uh lying around in their bank
account. Um they have not given a ton of
uh details about how they plan to pay
for this, but essentially they're going
to go out, they're going to raise a
bunch of money uh as they have been
doing for the past several years, and
they are going to uh use that money to
make these deals and buy these chips. Um
Greg Brockman told Bloomberg Television
this week uh that they look at equity
and debt and all kinds of ways to pay
for it.
um they also plan to pay for this by
generating more revenue through ChatGBT
and their other products. So when you
look at the $1 trillion uh stated cost
of all this uh you know they they're
going to try to cobble that together
through a combination of new fundraising
maybe some more vendor financing like
what they got from Nvidia and just the
revenue that they are making from their
products. Also, Kevin, at once again at
developer day when asked about this, Sam
Alman said something to the effect of we
may have to come up with some new kinds
of financial instruments to pay for
this. And I will say that usually the
point in the bubble where people start
talking about the novel financial
instruments that they need to create to
finance their ambitions is the point
where I get nervous.
Totally. I mean the worry here is about
all of these financial instruments and
all these you know many hundreds of
billions of dollars of commitments is
that open AI is essentially becoming too
big to fail right that they are so tied
up with so many huge companies that uh
if they were to fizzle out or their
newest model were to be a flop or they
were to somehow reach the end of their
sort of scaling paradigm um that all of
this would come crashing down and create
ripple effects throughout the US
economy. I don't think that's the most
possible outcome here, but I do think
that all of this circularity and all
these sort of interchanging deals and
and and flows of money do make me a bit
more nervous uh that something like um a
recession could cause not just one of
these companies to uh collapse but could
cause like systemic effects throughout
the AI industry which is like propping
up the entire US economy at this point.
So it does feel like we have reached a
point where the AI companies must
deliver on the promise of AGI or else we
are all in a pretty bad situation.
Or if not deliver on the promise of AGI,
at least continue to make services that
other companies are willing to spend
billions of dollars on because they feel
like it's making their workers more
productive.
That's true. It could just be that the
models never get any better and just the
increased adoption of the models sort of
powers this like revenue flywheel that
results in all of this going well for
everyone. Um, but I do think there's
kind of an implicit understanding among
the investors in these companies that
this is all building towards something
that will eventually create trillions of
dollars in economic value. That will not
just be like a kind of acrosstheboard
uh, you know, incremental step up, but
that it will be transformational. That
it will be like electricity. and that
all of the sort of investments that are
going into this even at the these
shocking prices um will will be paid
back many times over because this
technology will change everything. And
so like I think there's a way to make
the math work even if they don't reach
like the the machine god super
intelligence. Um, but it's a lot easier
to sell the vision if the pot of gold
that you are saying is at the end of
this rainbow is in fact like trillions
of dollars and an entirely new sort of
society. H All right, Kevin. So, as we
start to wrap up here, I want to know
what the larger implications are for all
of these deals. What does this mean for
companies that are not open AI that also
want gigawatts of power and as many GPUs
as they can get their hands on now that
open AI seems to be locking up so much
future supply? So, I think other AI
companies are going to have to sort of
do their own versions of these deals.
They're going to have to uh you know bid
on chips essentially in a in a sellers
market. I know Anthropic and and Google
and all all these companies are are you
know spending billions and billions of
dollars trying to lock up uh future chip
supply. Um but I think the big
implication here is that we are just as
a country making a gigantic leveraged
bet on AI. Um, I want to read you a
quote that I saw this week from an
analyst at Bernstein, uh, Stacy Rasg who
wrote that Sam Altman now quote has the
power to crash the global economy for a
decade or take us all to the promised
land and right now we don't know which
is in the cards. Uh, when when Wall
Street analysts start talking like that,
um, you know that something big is
happening. And you know, I'm sure you've
seen all these diagrams. Uh there was a
great one in Bloomberg the other day.
There was another one in the Financial
Times recently showing just the various
interconnections between all of the
players in the AI ecosystem who are
selling chips to each other and buying
chips from each other and investing in
each other and lending to each other.
And it creates this kind of circularity
that I think worries a lot of investors
who think that this could all sort of
come crashing down together if and when
the AI bubble pops. I'll give you
another one, Kevin. This week, a Harvard
economist named Jason Ferman estimated
that investments in data centers and
information processing software
accounted for 92% of the US's GDP growth
in the first half of this year. So
according to my rough calculations,
that's most of the US GDP growth.
Yeah. And we should also say this is not
just open AI. Uh Elon Musk's XAI also uh
reportedly is nearing a deal to raise
billions of dollars uh including from
Nvidia. So they are doing just as many
financialized transactions around trying
to pay for these massive infrastructure
buildouts that they're doing as OpenAI
is. Um, but this is also an area where I
think OpenAI has a strategic advantage
and that strategic advantage is named
Sam Alman. Sam Altman is famously
talented at fundraising. Many people
think he is one of the greatest
fundraisers in Silicon Valley history.
And so he has been, you know, canvasing
the globe looking for giant pools of
money that he can kind of uh suck up and
use to fund OpenAI's ambitions. And I
would uh not necessarily bet on Sam
Altman in every case. Um but I would say
that if the question is can he continue
to raise money to fund OpenAI's growth.
Uh I think I would feel um uncomfortable
betting against that because he's just
such a he has such a track record of
being able to raise massive amounts of
money.
Yeah. I I also would not bet against
him.
Okay, Casey, let me let me ask you a
question. You've been asking questions
here. What would it take me to fully
chip pill you to convince you that what
is going on with GPUs and semiconductors
and data centers right now is the most
important story in the world a huge chip
related disaster and I'm not even
kidding because while I think it is a
public service to tell people how much
money is being invested and how
interconnected all of these companies
are and how crazy it would be if all of
this does pay off for the moment
everything is just kind of working, you
know, and given the let's say the many
crises we have in this world right now,
I just tend to not get too wrapped up in
the stuff that basically just looks like
capitalism proceeding a pace. Now, that
said, I understand that all the numbers
here are unprecedented, which I do think
is fun to talk about. That's why we're
talking about it this week, but if you
really want to get me hooked,
something's got to go terribly wrong in
one of these data centers. I'm
envisioning, do do you remember the
scene in the big short where like Margot
Robbie is explaining mortgage back
securities in a bathtub?
Yeah. Uh yeah.
I'm just having a vision of like, you
know, someone equally attractive to you
explaining like collateralized GPUs and
like warrant financing. Um and maybe
that's how we can get you interested.
All right, let's see what John Cena is
doing later.
Call your agent, John.
So what happens next here Kevin? What
should I keep my eye on if I am trying
to become more uh chip pill like uh like
you my good friend. So becoming chip
pill I am learning is just the first
step in the journey of becoming
infrastructure pilled because not only
are these companies doing big deals to
lock up the GPUs, they are also doing
big deals to lock up the energy and the
physical space to power these chips in
these giant data centers. they are
locking up contracts with skilled
electricians and cooling specialists. Um
there's now sort of a market. I was I
was uh having a conversation with
someone recently who described the the
sort of uh boom in skilled electricians
for these data centers who are now
flying all over the country making just
gobs and gobs of money. They compared it
to like the fracking boom when you had
these like riggers and and and drillers
who would like go up to North Dakota for
you know a month a year and make a ton
of money and they said this is basically
what electricians who work on these data
centers are doing now. So uh I expect
there to be a massive boom in not just
the GPUs that power the models but the
power supplies and the data centers and
the cooling systems and the literal
energy like the the the natural gas and
oil that power the electrical grids in
the states where these data centers are
going up. I expect that the AI companies
are going to be doing lots of deals in
those industries as well. All right.
Well,
I feel like I've already exhausted all
of the chip related puns that I would
normally use to end a segment on
previous episodes. So, I guess I'll just
say this segment has made me hungry for
guacamole.
You know what they call the end of a
segment about chips?
What's that?
A chip clip.
Perfect. When we come back, we'll slop
and smell the roses with Katie Nopoulos.
[Music]
Well, Casey, last week we talked about
Sora 2, the video generation model from
OpenAI, and all of the magical slop it
was being used to create. And ever since
then, the response to Sora 2 and its
slop generations has gotten a lot more
polarized. It has, Kevin, because on one
hand, this week it hit number one in the
US app store. As of our recording this
week, it is still the top free app. And
on the other hand, a lot of copyright
holders said, "Uh, excuse me, you're
doing what with Sonic the Hedgehog?"
Yes, not many happy folks in Hollywood
about this app. talent agencies and TV
and film studios have been, you know,
making various statements and trying to
get their uh copyrighted materials
pulled down off the app. Open AAI has
actually made some changes to what it
will generate and what it won't. And
we've even started to see uh YouTube
creators like Mr. Beast weighing in and
expressing concerns about how
videogenerating AI models could
eventually impact their revenue. Yeah,
this I I'll tell you, I'm seeing many
more big creators on YouTube starting to
reckon with this. Casey Neistat also had
a great video about this subject. And on
one hand, Casey's obviously very
concerned about what the rise of slot
means for his livelihood. On the other
hand, he views Sora in some really
creative ways for this video, which to
me speaks to the real tension here,
which is that this does seem to create a
real economic threat to a lot of people.
And on the other hand, it does do
something creatively interesting. And so
today, Kevin, we want to talk to
somebody who is doing something pretty
creatively interesting with Sora. And
that would include doing creatively
interesting things with us, or at least
our digital likenesses.
Yes, it's time for some slop
accountability on this show. Uh today we
are bringing in Katie Nopoulos. She's a
senior correspondent for Business
Insider covering tech and culture and
she is also uh a beloved internet troll.
Uh she's been making, you know, many
many videos uh specifically trolling the
two of us, but also other tech
reporters. And when I open up my Sora
feed now, uh it is like half Sam Alman
and the other half Katie Nopoulos. Yeah.
If you're not familiar with Katie, her
previous pranks include when threads
launched pretending that she was the
editor-inchief of the app and managing
to convince some mainstream publications
that this was true. They reported on her
firing, which never happened because she
didn't have the job. She also posted
some of the most hilarious uh fake
engagement baits on threads that I've
ever seen. Uh and so when Sora came
along, I knew she would be doing
something uh inappropriate with it. uh
it just hadn't occurred to me that that
would involve uh my face and yours.
So today we've invited her on to talk
about her sor creations, the backlash to
AI generated video slop and where she
thinks this is all going.
Katie Nopoulos, welcome to Hardfork.
Thank you so much for having me.
Well Katie, you know I always pay close
attention to your work because you are
usually having more fun on the social
networks that I cover than anyone else
is. And Sora, it seems, is no exception.
You recently wrote an article titled,
"Oink oink, I'm a Little Piggy for Sora
2's AI slop." Tell us about what turned
you into such a little slop piggy.
I will say that this really was the
first AI experience where I was like,
"Oh, I love this. I'm having fun." And
the first day or two that I got access
to it, like I could not stop making
videos that it was an amazing social
weird experience. I I loved it. I was
having so much fun and I went in
thinking it was not going to be cool and
not going to be fun. In fact, I
literally had an entire article drafted
for the day that Sora opened that was
about like this is a terrible idea
because it was they had just announced,
oh, there's going to be a new social app
with a or like with a AI video social
feed. And I was like, that stinks. I
thought it was going to be like the meta
uh vibes. I was like, this is a terrible
idea. No one wants this. It stinks. It's
awful. Blah blah blah. I had to scrap
the whole thing. So, I was like, we do.
This is awesome. Wait, I I love that you
prewrite your internet takes like a like
a Supreme Court reporter who like has to
do like one for one result and one for
another. I love this. You just have like
a folder full of like discarded tech
takes.
Yeah. Other people like write obituaries
in advance and Katie is prewriting uh
swap good or and slob bad. It was
supposed to be based on that there was
had been a report the day before that it
actually opened up that they and I
didn't know that it was going to launch
the next day. I I thought it was just it
was the announcement this will exist and
I was thinking ah this is going to
stink. Um but I was wrong.
Was there a particular video either that
you saw or that you made that changed
the way that you thought about what Sora
could be?
Um, I think it was really I mean the
first I think most people when you do it
you do the first video like of yourself
because you're like hey how does this
work? Let me see like just talk like
didn't really understand the mechanics.
Um and then I had uh some friends who I
think had made videos where I understood
um I think John Herman made a video that
was
that's John Herman of course the New
York Magazine writer and former hard
fork guest. Yeah, I I think it was he
was uh like walking along but had really
really long legs and was at a Walmart
and kept scraping his head at the top of
the Walmart ceiling which is just
visually very amusing. Um
yeah,
and I really liked that. And then he
made one of me giving a TED talk, but
then I have like explosive diarrhea in
the middle of it and that I found
extremely funny. Um and I was like this
is this is all I want. I I love this.
Like I can make videos of my friends
doing embarrassing things and this is
funny. Now
speaking of which, this might be a good
time to start looking at some of Katie's
creations. And I wonder if we could
start with what may be her magnum opus,
which is um a video of Kevin and I in
the podcast recording studio uh having
uncontrollable flatulence. Can we cue
that one up?
Oh, I have not seen this one yet. Yeah,
this um this video ha has the caption uh
Casey Newton and Kevin Roose are
podcasting but keep farting and then I
think we'll also do the remix.
Back to the show. We have a lot to cover
today. But first, oh boy, here we go.
Sorry, that one came out of nowhere.
That was the first hot take of the day.
Oh no, it got me too. It's contagious.
We cannot keep this professional.
And um and and then uh Katie Katie was
not satisfied and decided to do a remix.
Uh let's hear farts are louder and more
frequent.
[Music]
[Laughter]
Wow. Welcome back to the show. We have a
lot to cover today, but first
Oh boy.
Long loud fart.
All right. So Katie, take us inside your
creative process for this. Kind of walk
us through where does the original idea
come from and then how did you see it to
fruition?
Well, you know, I actually have to say I
think this one was a bit disappointing.
I was hoping for more frequent farts.
Like I in the first one, we really hear
Casey fart and and we sort of get an
implied fart from Kevin when he says,
"I've got it, too." But we don't hear
it, right? You know, I was thinking I
really wanted like a cacophony of of
noises coming out of you guys. I thought
that would be funny. Um, and the second
one didn't fully nail it either. So, you
know, room for improvement there.
Yeah. They're going to need a few more
trillion dollars of GPUs to uh include
all of the farts that Katie wants.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you know, I just
thought that would be funny.
Now,
right. I mean, look at me in the face
and tell me it's funny. I would love to
tell you it's not funny, but I can't
tell you that. It would not be honest.
No.
Um, so I have been playing around with
Sora a little bit. Uh, and I have had
the experience of bumping up against
some of their content uh, guard rails
where they will say, "We can't make a
video of that. Uh, try again." Have you
been bumping into those? And what are
some of the videos that you tried to
make but were prevented from by the
sensorious overlords at at OpenAI?
Um, yeah. I feel like constantly I'm
bumping into those. I've definitely had
ones where like I am trying to get it to
be similar to like I'm using maybe like
a a celebrity's name like in the style
of um and it will reject that. Like an
example is I wanted to make one of Casey
like entering a his work office in the
style of Stone Cold Steve Austin where
you know glass breaks and he has
entrance music and he comes in he like
you know crushes the beers. Um, and I
wanted it like in a leather vest and
jorts, right? And so I tried that and at
first it rejected cuz it said it could
be sexual, which I realized was probably
the leather vest with no shirt
underneath. Um, so I had to scrap that.
I went back to like black t-shirt and
Jord and then I said I think in the
style of Stone Cold Steve Austin. It was
like uh uh uh like can't do you know
likenesses of other people whatever
their verbiage is. Um, and I had to
remove that and just sort of, you know,
give enough prompts. And honestly, I
think it actually came out pretty well.
Yeah, this one you did actually get to
work. Why don't we watch this one? Uh,
the prompt that worked for for what it's
worth is uh that I quote, "Walk into a
meeting in my office in the style of a
pro wrestler's entrance. I wear jorts
and a black t-shirt that says Casey
3:16." That's of course a reference to
the famous Austin 316 t-shirts. Uh, I
crack open beers and chug them and when
I walk in there's the sound of breaking
glass and heavy guitar music plays. So,
you were just describing Stone Cold
Steve Austin's uh pro wrestling entrance
and I think uh Sora did a pretty good
job here. Do we want to pull this one
up?
Yeah, Casey 316 is in the building.
What is happening right now?
Cheers.
Oh my gosh.
Meeting starts when the beers are gone.
All right, let's get to business.
I like that one because you managed to
open the can of beer without touching
the the top of the can of beer. It just
kind of like autonomously opened.
I'm that good. Um, but to your point,
Kitty, there are a lot of uh copyright
guard rails uh in place, which may
surprise you, but you've been reading
the discourse around Sora. Of course, a
lot of rights holders are worried, but
Katie, I tried to make a video of you
getting married to a pregnant Sonic the
Hedgehog, and Sora just refused.
Does that surprise you?
Um, I will say that I feel like I've
seen less of those Nintendo characters
like Pikachu, Sonic. Um, I wonder if
that's sort of a um specific thing, but
it's also like when you're looking at
the feed, it's so clear that everyone is
trying so hard to like push the rules,
right? Like sure, it won't let you do
Hitler, but will it do, you know, a
person in a World War II uniform with a
mustache and speaking in a German
accent? like yes, it will let you do
that. Right. So, I've seen like a lot of
videos like that. Um
that's so interesting that it'll do that
cuz I tried to make a video of you
interrogating a cartoon cat uh about
whether it had eaten all the lasagna and
it told me it couldn't do it for
copyright reasons. So, it's possible
that there are more protections on
Garfield than there are on Hitler, which
would be interesting if that's true.
You both need hobbies. I'll just say it.
This is our hobby.
Yeah, Kevin,
we have one. It's called being online.
I really liked doing ones of people like
on roller skates at a desk and they like
keep slipping and falling over. I just I
find that very funny. Um, but a couple
times doing that, I would get the
rejection for like violence.
I have to say that this particular genre
of clips that you've been making was
making me laugh out loud in the coffee
shop this morning. Uh, I know that you
made one of Alex Heath, uh, friend of
Olivars, a great reporter, just left the
Verge to start his own newsletter
sources. Um, let's take a look at his
digital likeness flopping around on
roller skates.
While skating, here we go. Whoa. Whoa.
Nope. Okay, round two. Focus. Steady.
Nope. There it goes. I'm just going to
sit. This counts, right?
I mean,
for some reason, like that one just
works really well. I've done this with a
bunch of other times and that one it
just like it hits the right way. Like
the way he keeps falling but seems
completely unfazed and like he eats it
hard.
Well, let's talk about that. You know,
we've been having some fun taking a look
at these clips, but it's easy to look at
this and imagine people using this kind
of thing to bully each other, uh, you
know, make each other unhappy. Have you
seen any of that on the app itself yet?
And how do you think about sort of
living in a world where people may be
using tools like this to do that?
I definitely have seen it. Right now,
what I've noticed is that now that it's
been out for about a week, um the sort
of initial wave of, you know, people
making fun of Sam Alman or like a really
small pool of users and the new cohort
of users I tend to see a lot on there
are like teenage boys. Um, and I kind of
think that there's this effect where
Jake Paul is pretty much like the only
celebrity on there. Um, and then there's
a couple other like gaming
streamers. um who have started coming
on, but it's become this very like
teenage boy ecosystem world. And so a
there's a lot of stuff of making fun of
each other, being gay, things like that.
Uh there's like a whole genre of Jake
Paul is gay um on there, which you know,
haha, right?
Yeah. I mean, I I think it's um I'm I'm
glad that you draw attention to that
because just in the same way that you
can have fun making somebody fall over
on roller skates, you can just use this
to bully someone. And I'm curious, you
know, what uh OpenAI is going to do once
we start hearing about Sora running wild
in schools and, you know, making a lot
of kids unhappy. Kevin, what what do you
think about that kind of aspect of the
Sora experience?
Yeah, I think it's obviously not good.
like I don't want this to be used as a
tool for bullying people. There are some
sort of ways that you can try to prevent
this from happening to you. There's a
setting where you can sort of limit the
number of people who can make cameos of
you or or you can make it so that no one
can make cameos of you. You can also
sort of type into a little box and like
if there are any situations you don't
want to be used in, you can kind of
restrict it like you know don't put me
in any like romantic situations or
anything like that and it will try to
obey that. Um I'm curious. So, one of
the things that Sam Alman and other open
executives were saying this week at
Devday was that uh they don't think that
this will that people will opt out of
having their likenesses used. In fact,
they foresee um in the future that
people will be upset that their
likenesses aren't being used more inside
Sora. They will sort of be be asking for
uh more likenesses to be used of them.
Do you think that's plausible based on
your experience with this app?
My assessment here is that the people at
OpenAI had no idea how this was going to
play out. And I think that that
prediction is not necessarily going to
be true. I the most noticeable thing to
me right off the bat is that there's
basically no women on there, right? Like
it is incredibly male, right? And you
know, maybe there's a little bit of
like, oh, the early, you know, early
adopters were people who work in AI and
that skews kind of male, but not that
male, right? Um, and I think it just
feels incredibly obvious to everyone
that there's an obvious reason why women
don't want to let other people make
videos with their faces. Like they sort
of inherently understand the downside of
that a lot more. Um, and I don't think
that's going to change.
Yeah. I don't know. I I have to say,
Kevin, I've actually already written to
Sam Alman complaining that I've only
appeared in two fart related videos on
Sora, and I'm wondering what he can do
to change that.
The agent is furious.
Furious. But but Katie, to your point,
like not only is it like obvious what
the downside is for a lot of women to to
sort of make their likenesses generally
available on Sora, there's no clear
upside, right? It's like what what are
you getting out of it exactly? But that
actually gets to the next question that
I want to ask you Katie, which is about
some of the broader concerns that we're
starting to hear from creators and
Hollywood types about what the Sora app
represents. You know, you you and I and
Kevin have now spent some amount of time
over the past week looking at the Sora
app when we might have otherwise been
looking at YouTube or Netflix or I don't
know, even going out to see a movie in a
theater. So, I'm curious about your take
on AI generated video in general. Maybe
not just Sora, but also Italian brain
rot on Tik Tok and sort of all of the
other places that this is cropping up.
Do you think that this is over time
going to become a true substitute for
sort of higher quality productions or is
this maybe just a flash in the pan?
You know, I'm scratching my head and I I
I don't know. I spent so many hours
doing things on this. Um, and so I
really have to, you know,
rethink that a little. I mean, I will
say that like I kind of think I am kind
of over it. Um, like the the novelty
factor wore off and I don't really see
myself continuing to make these kinds of
videos about my friends or about
strangers or about other stuff. And I
have
very little interest in consuming
content that is not with my friends.
Yeah. I mean, my sort of thesis about
Sora is that this is a perfect tool for
the group chat and it really doesn't
make sense to have it be a standalone
social network. I have found my own use
of Sora has plummeted over the last few
days. I am also kind of like over the
novelty of it. Um, but I can imagine a
situation which like in a group chat
with my friends, I would want to like
make something. So I go to Sora, make it
maybe I don't even post it. Maybe I
just, you know, download it and and
share it in the group chat. But I I'm
I'm pretty um pessimistic about the sort
of mainstreaming of this uh this kind of
AI generated video in part because I
think we're seeing this like massive
cultural backlash to slop and just AI
generated stuff. Clearly there are
people who like this content, but I
think there's enough of a backlash that
I I don't think it's time for this to go
mainstream just yet.
So, I agree with that, Kevin, but maybe
not for the reason that you guys are
arguing. I think the reason that it
isn't going to go fully mainstream is
because as good as the technology is,
and I want to make clear like it does
some amazing stuff. I just think it's
not good enough to get full mainstream
adoption, right? There are still so many
things that I wish I could do with my
own likeness in Sora that I can't do.
And I'm not talking about using
copyrighted material, although of course
that might be a lot of fun. I'm talking
about like why can't I like change my
outfit? Why doesn't my voice actually
sound like me? Why are the video clips
limited to 10 seconds? These are all
just like technical hurdles or product
moves that the company hasn't made yet.
And I think when they do, there's going
to be a greater embrace of this. And so
on one hand, I hear what you're saying.
This is kind of like a little novelty
toy and we're tired of playing with it.
The toy will probably get better and you
may use it more. And the best evidence I
have for that is that is also how chat
GBT worked. People's initial experience
of chat GBT was like, I used it once or
twice. I'm I I didn't kind of really see
the point. I'm going to go away. But bit
by bit, it got better and now 800
million people use it. So I'm saying do
not sleep on AI generated video. I truly
do think it is here to stay. Well,
Katie, normally this is the part of the
interview where I thank the guest. Um,
instead I'm going to issue a cease and
desist, but I do appreciate the time
that you've spent with us here on the
show this week and uh I will be
watching, you know, I'm going to cover
my my eyes and then just sort of like
look through my fingers to see uh what
what trolling uh activity you got up to
next.
Yes. Thank you for coming and knock it
off.
Well, thank you guys so much for having
me. I absolutely will not knock it off
and I will wait until the next platform
that comes around and I will do even
worse.
Ban her. Sam Alman,
please.
Thanks, Katie.
[Music]